README.md, before:



Chess Engine

Uses magic bitboards for sliding moves - https://www.chessprogramming.org/Magic_Bitboards
Uses minimax with alpha beta pruning for search - currently can search to depth 4 in a few seconds
Uses UCI to interface with other chess engines - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_Chess_Interface


So how do we decide how to map each chess board square to a bit in the 64-bit integer? This mapping could be arbitrary, but it behooves us to pick a mathematically advantageous mapping. In this particular mapping (or winding) we are going to say that position a1 is the least signficant bit (LSB), bit 0, of the 64 bit number and h8 is the most significant bit (MSB), bit 63. The squares will be assigned in a left to right, bottom to top ordering to each bit index in the 64 bit number from LSB to MSB.
A8 	B8 	C8 	D8 	E8 	F8 	G8 	H8
A7 	B7 	C7 	D7 	E7 	F7 	G7 	H7
A6 	B6 	C6 	D6 	E6 	F6 	G6 	H6
A5 	B5 	C5 	D5 	E5 	F5 	G5 	H5
A4 	B4 	C4 	D4 	E4 	F4 	G4 	H4
A3 	B3 	C3 	D3 	E3 	F3 	G3 	H3
A2 	B2 	C2 	D2 	E2 	F2 	G2 	H2
A1 	B1 	C1 	D1 	E1 	F1 	G1 	H1
	
56 	57 	58 	59 	60 	61 	62 	63
48 	49 	50 	51 	52 	53 	54 	55
40 	41 	42 	43 	44 	45 	46 	47
32 	33 	34 	35 	36 	37 	38 	39
24 	25 	26 	27 	28 	29 	30 	31
16 	17 	18 	19 	20 	21 	22 	23
8 	9 	10 	11 	12 	13 	14 	15
0 	1 	2 	3 	4 	5 	6 	7










NOTES TO SELF

we use jest because mohca/chai does not have support for bigint
javascript/typescript - Objects and arrays are passed by reference. Primitive values like number, string, boolean are passed by value. A reference to an object is also a primitive type and passed by value like other primitive types, but the object it refers to is still passed by reference.

global variable CHECK_FLAG in game.ts a good idea?
how can history and board state be coupled that neither can be out of sync?

two weeks until bug free random move games being played

there is some seriously dubious logic going on with the magic bitboard --- need to convert a bigint to a number to set the index, which is outside js's range for a safe int. This needs to be remedied

watch out for cirular imports

Commit message:

test of wasm javascript and further uci integration

README.md, after:



Chess Engine

Uses magic bitboards for sliding moves - https://www.chessprogramming.org/Magic_Bitboards
Uses minimax with alpha beta pruning for search - currently can search to depth 4 in a few seconds
Uses UCI to interface with other chess engines - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_Chess_Interface


So how do we decide how to map each chess board square to a bit in the 64-bit integer? This mapping could be arbitrary, but it behooves us to pick a mathematically advantageous mapping. In this particular mapping (or winding) we are going to say that position a1 is the least signficant bit (LSB), bit 0, of the 64 bit number and h8 is the most significant bit (MSB), bit 63. The squares will be assigned in a left to right, bottom to top ordering to each bit index in the 64 bit number from LSB to MSB.
A8 	B8 	C8 	D8 	E8 	F8 	G8 	H8
A7 	B7 	C7 	D7 	E7 	F7 	G7 	H7
A6 	B6 	C6 	D6 	E6 	F6 	G6 	H6
A5 	B5 	C5 	D5 	E5 	F5 	G5 	H5
A4 	B4 	C4 	D4 	E4 	F4 	G4 	H4
A3 	B3 	C3 	D3 	E3 	F3 	G3 	H3
A2 	B2 	C2 	D2 	E2 	F2 	G2 	H2
A1 	B1 	C1 	D1 	E1 	F1 	G1 	H1
	
56 	57 	58 	59 	60 	61 	62 	63
48 	49 	50 	51 	52 	53 	54 	55
40 	41 	42 	43 	44 	45 	46 	47
32 	33 	34 	35 	36 	37 	38 	39
24 	25 	26 	27 	28 	29 	30 	31
16 	17 	18 	19 	20 	21 	22 	23
8 	9 	10 	11 	12 	13 	14 	15
0 	1 	2 	3 	4 	5 	6 	7


To run:

Etiher use UCI and create and executable

or

tsc && node run

To test:

    tsc && npx jest dist\__tests__\uci.test.js
